**India Driving Dataset (IDD): A Dataset for Exploring Problems of Autonomous Navigation in Unconstrained Environments (Segmentation 20k)** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, and object detection tasks. It is used in the automotive industry. 

The dataset consists of 20101 images with 1519090 labeled objects belonging to 41 different classes including *obs-str-bar-fallback*, *sky*, *vegetation*, and other: *pole*, *road*, *drivable fallback*, *building*, *motorcycle*, *car*, *rider*, *billboard*, *person*, *wall*, *vehicle fallback*, *non-drivable fallback*, *autorickshaw*, *curb*, *truck*, *traffic sign*, *bus*, *sidewalk*, *fence*, *fallback background*, *guard rail*, *bridge*, *polegroup*, *bicycle*, *animal*, *traffic light*, *out of roi*, *caravan*, *parking*, *tunnel*, *rail track*, *trailer*, *rectification border*, *train*, *ego vehicle*, *license plate*, *ground*, and *unlabeled*.

Images in the IDD: Segmentation dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. There are 4050 (20% of the total) unlabeled images (i.e. without annotations). There are 3 splits in the dataset: *train* (14027 images), *test* (4038 images), and *val* (2036 images). Additionally, every image has information about its ***sequence***, while every object instance has its ***category*** and 4-level label hierarchy: ***level1id***, ***level2id***, ***level3id***,  ***level4id. Explore them in supervisely labeling tool***. The dataset was released in 2018 by the IIIT Hyderabad, India, Intel Bangalore, and University of California, San Diego.

Here is a visualized example for randomly selected sample classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/idd-segmentation/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
